12 letters[edit]
tattarrattat – the longest palindrome in the Oxford English Dictionary, coined by James Joyce in Ulysses for a knock on the door
11 letters[edit]
aibohphobia – a joke word meaning "fear of palindromes", deliberately constructed so as to be one (various other words have been contrived along these lines, such as ailihphilia, a love of palindromes, elihphile, a lover of palindromes, etc.)
detartrated – past tense of “to detartrate”, a chemical term meaning to remove tartrates; alternatively an adjective indicating that tartrates have indeed been removed (this is the longest English palindrome in the Guinness Book of Records, though it is not listed in dictionaries; it is, however, encountered in some discussions of Concord grape juice [1])
kinnikinnik – variant (or common misspelling) of kinnikinnick, a Native American smoking mixture
Nine letters[edit]
deleveled - something that goes out of level
evitative – a grammatical case indicating fear or aversion
Malayalam – a language of South India
redivider – someone or something that redivides (tied for longest "real" palindrome that is not a proper noun and that appears in English dictionaries)
releveler – (American spelling) someone or something that levels again (tied for longest "real" palindrome that is not a proper noun and that appears in English dictionaries).
Rotavator – a type of machine for breaking up soil (trademark)
Seven letters[edit]
Adinida – a suborder of planktonic organisms
deified – past tense of "to deify", meaning to consider as a god
Hagigah
murdrum – in old English law, a secret killing
Nauruan – the language spoken in Nauru
peeweep – a type of bird, often understood to be a lapwing
racecar – a racing car
reifier – someone who reifies (considers an abstract concept to be real)
repaper – to cover again with paper
reviver – someone or something that revives or restores
rotator – a thing that rotates
seities – plural of seity, the essence of an individual
sememes – plural of sememe, the interpretation given to a morpheme (a language unit)
Senones – an ancient people who lived in part of what is now France
SIXAXIS – the name of the official PlayStation 3 controller
soosoos – plural of soosoo, a type of dolphin
Tacocat - a signature card from The Oatmeal's Exploding Kittens card game
Zerorez - Registered trademark for a carpet cleaning system (from Zero residue)
Six letters[edit]
degged - past tense of to deg, meaning to water a plant
denned – past tense of to den, meaning to live in a den
hallah – a variant of challah, a type of bread traditionally eaten by Jews
Hannah - a female given name
mallam – in West Africa, a learned man
marram – a type of grass
pip-pip – an old-fashioned British word for good-bye
pull-up or pullup – an exercise in which one pulls oneself up by the arms
redder – more red
renner – an archaic variant of runner
revver – someone or something that revs (an engine)
selles – plural of selle, an archaic word for a saddle
sesses – plural or third-person present tense of sess, an archaic word for tax (a variant of assess)
succus – any of various liquids excreted by animals or plants
terret – a metal ring on a harness, through which the reins pass
tirrit – according to Webster’s Dictionary (1913): "A word from the vocabulary of Mrs. Quickly, the hostess in Shakespeare’s Henry IV., probably meaning terror"
tut-tut – a disapproving sound; to make such a sound
Five letters[edit]
alala – a type of Hawaiian crow
alula – a structure forming part of a bird’s wing
arara – a type of Australian cockatoo; also a Brazilian macaw
civic – relating to a city
debed – to remove someone from a bed
deked – past tense of "to deke", meaning to deceive (especially in ice hockey)
deled – past tense of "to dele", meaning to delete (a passage of text)
dered – past tense of "to dere", an archaic word meaning to harm
dewed – past tense of "to dew", meaning to cover with dew
dexed – past tense of "to dex", meaning to drink robotussin
Hamah – variant of Hama, a city in Syria
Igigi – a class of Sumerian gods
irori - traditional Japanese sunken fireplace
kaiak – variant of kayak
Kanak – a native of New Caledonia; also, short for Kanakaole i.e. Hawaiian surname
kayak – a light Inuit canoe
Kazak – a member of a people inhabiting the central Asian republic of Kazakhstan; their language
kelek – a type of raft used in the Middle East
level – various common meanings
Liril – a cosmetic soap popular in India
madam – a polite form of address for a woman
minim – a musical note having half the duration of a full note
neven – "To name; to mention; to utter. [Obs.]" (definition from Webster’s Dictionary, 1913)
put-up – deceitful, as in a put-up job
radar – a method of detecting objects using radio waves (acronym from Radio Detection And Ranging, so it’s self-defining too - i. e., the word "bounces back" like a radar signal)
refer – various common meanings
rotor – something that rotates
sagas – plural of saga, a long narrative story
semes – plural of seme, a linguistic element
seres – plural of sere, a series of stages of ecological development
sexes – plural of sex
shahs – plural of shah, a former name for the king of Iran
Sinis – variant of siris (q.v.)
siris – a type of tree; (with cap.) a figure in Greek mythology
solos – plural of solo
stats – contraction of statistics
stets – third-person present tense of "to stet", meaning to indicate that a passage of text should remain unchanged
stots – third-person present tense of "to stot", meaning to leap or bounce
sulus – plural of sulu, a type of sarong
Susus – plural of Susu, a member of a West African people
tenet – a belief or principle
torot – see [2], [3]
Wakaw - A town and a lake in Saskatchewan, Canada.
Xanax - Pfizer's trade name for alprazolam, a benzodiazepene used to treat panic disorder (severe anxiety and panic attacks).
Four letters[edit]
acca – see [4]
adda – a type of lizard; see [5]
Adda – a river in Italy; a river in Wales
affa – "A weight used on the Guinea coast, equal to an ounce" (definition from Webster’s Dictionary, 1828)
alla – see [6]
anna – an Indian coin
Anna – a girl’s name
Beeb – an informal name for the BBC
boob – a blunder; a breast
deed – various common meanings
esse – existence or essence
goog – an egg (Australian slang)
immi – a Swiss unit of volume
keek – to peep
kook – a crazy person
ma'am – a contraction of madam
naan – a type of Indian bread
noon – midday
oppo – see [7]
otto – variant of attar, an essential oil
Otto - a proper name
peep – various common meanings
poop – a raised deck at the stern of a ship; various other meanings
sees – third-person present tense of ‘to see’
toot – the sound made by a horn or whistle
Three letters[edit]
aba – a fabric woven of the hair of camels or goats
aga – title for a civil or military leader, especially in Turkey
aha – used to express surprise, pleasure or triumph
ala – a wing or winglike structure or part
ama – a housemaid, especially a wet nurse, in India and the Far East
ana – a collection of various materials that reflect the character of a person or place, e.g. "early 1900’s Americana"
Ara – a star constellation; a genus of macaws
ava – a species of Macropiper (M. methysticum), the long pepper, from the root of which an intoxicating beverage is made by the Polynesians
Ava - a girl's name
awa – away (Official Scrabble Players Dictionary)
bib – a piece of cloth or plastic secured under the chin and worn, especially by small children, to protect the clothing while eating
bob – to float on the surface of water
Bob – shortened form of Robert, a boy’s name
bub – used as a term of familiar address, especially for a man or boy ('See you around, bub.’)
dad – father
did – past tense of the verb "do"
dud – something that doesn't work or succeed
eke – to obtain by great effort
eme – a distinctive unit of linguistic structure
ere – before (archaic or poetic)
eve – the period immediately preceding a certain event
Eve – a girl’s name
ewe – a female sheep (ovine)
eye – the usual organ of sight
gag – something forced into or put over the mouth to prevent speaking or crying out; the act or an instance of gagging or choking
gig – a music event; also, a light two-wheeled carriage
gog – roof, covering
hah – a variation of "Ha!"
heh – used to express contempt; part of a snigger ("heh-heh")
huh – used to express interrogation, surprise, contempt or indifference
mem – the 13th letter of the Hebrew and Arabic alphabets
mim – demure
mom – mother (American)
mum – mother (British); a reference to silence (usually with "keep"; British)
nan – a variation of "nanny"
non – a prefix meaning "not" or "against"
nun – a female clergyman who practices celibacy; the 14th letter of the Hebrew and Arabic alphabets
oho – used to express surprise, comprehension, or mock astonishment
omo – prefix; shoulder: omohyoid; also, a brand of washing powder sometimes used as the generic term for all washing powder
ono – "grief or strength or iniquity of him" (Easton’s 1897 Bible Dictionary)
oxo – oxime
pap – a food made with warm milk and crumbled bread
pep – energy and high spirits
pip – a seed; also, to get the better of
pop – a cola; also, to burst
pup – the young of any of various mammals
sis – shortened form of "sister"
sos – plural of "so", the fifth tone of the diatonic scale in music
tat – tattoo
tet – the ninth letter of the Hebrew alphabet
tit – a small bird (British); a breast (slang)
tot – a small child; a small quantity of liquid
tut – used to express annoyance, impatience or mild reproof ("Tut, tut, child!")
vav – the sixth letter of the Hebrew alphabet
waw – the sixth letter of the Arabic alphabet
wow – used to express amazement
yay – used to express happiness/delight
zuz – a Palestinian coin
zzz – the sound of snoring
Two letters[edit]
aa – lava having a rough surface (pron. a’a’)
ee – an extinct Hawaiian bird (pron. e’e’)
mm – used to express satisfaction
oo – a rare Hawaiian bird (pronounced "oh-oh"); also a Scottish word for "wool"; also "one" (obs. Chaucerian English)
Proper names[edit]
Malayalam – a language spoken in Kerala, India
Akasaka – an area of Tokyo
Glenelg – any of a number of towns around the world
halalah – a variation of halala, a monetary unit of Saudi Arabia
Hamamah – a town in Saudi Arabia
hararah – a town in Egypt
Ogopogo – a supposed lake monster that resides in Okanagan Lake, British Columbia.
Qaanaaq – a town in Greenland
Ele’ele – in Polynesian mythology, the name of the first woman
Eleele – a Hawaiian town
Hannah – a girl's name
Serres – a town in Greece; any of various other places
Aeaea – a place in Greek mythology
Aiaia – variant of Aeaea (see above)
Anona – a genus of plants
Ardra – a Hindu goddess
Arará – an ethnic group in Cuba
Aviva – a female name
Capac – a town in Michigan
Kodok – a town in the Sudan
Laval – a city in Quebec, and a town in France. Also a French surname
Natan – The Hebrew and German form of the name "Nathan"
Navan – the administrative capital of the County Meath, Ireland
Noyon – a town in France
Oruro – a city and a department in Bolivia
Tebet – the fourth month of the Jewish civil year
Tevet – variant of Tebet (q.v.)
Tumut – a town in New South Wales
Xanax – the brand name of Alprazolam, an anti-anxiety drug (a trademark)
xenex – the sword wielded by Xenophon
Abba – a title given to a bishop in various Middle Eastern and African Christian churches; also a Swedish pop group, usually written "ABBA"
Akka – a town in Israel; also various other meanings
Amma – mother, especially in a spiritual sense
Anna – a female name
Atta – a genus of ants
Elle – a female name
Otto – a male name, and also a surname in English
Ada – a female name
Eve – in the Bible, the first woman
Eye – a village in Suffolk, England
Krk – a Croatian island and town
Nan – a female name
Nen – a surname in the English language
Ava – a female name
Phrases[edit]
Able was I ere I saw Elba.
A man, a plan, a canal: Panama.
Doc, note, I Dissent. A fast never prevents a fatness. I diet on cod.
Dennis, Nell, Edna, Leon, Nedra, Anita, Rolf, Nora, Alice, Carol, Leo, Jane, Reed, Dena, Dale, Basil, Rae, Penny, Lana, Dave, Denny, Lena, Ida, Bernadette, Ben, Ray, Lila, Nina, Jo, Ira, Mara, Sara, Mario, Jan, Ina, Lily, Arne, Bette, Dan, Reba, Diane, Lynn, Ed, Eva, Dana, Lynne, Pearl, Isabel, Ada, Ned, Dee, Rena, Joel, Lora, Cecil, Aaron, Flora, Tina, Arden, Noel, and Ellen sinned.
I made border bard’s drowsy swords; drab, red robed am I.
Name no side in Eden, I’m mad! A maid I am, Adam mine; denied is one man.
Madam, I’m Adam.
Rats live on no evil star.
POW, ami! O’ Gad, ami! Go hang a salami, doc! Note; I dissent. A fast never prevents a fatness. I diet on cod. I’m a lasagna hog. I’m a dago! I’m a wop!
Nurse, I spy gypsies run.
Lion oil.
Dog's god.
Degas, are we not drawn onward, no? In union, drawn onward to new eras aged?
God’s dog.
Live evil.
Rise to vote, sir.
Too hot to hoot.
Dennis and Edna sinned.
Was it a cat I saw?
Was it a car or a cat I saw?
Evil olive
Dammit I'm mad
Racecar
Taco cat
Satan oscillate my metallic sonatas
Step on no Pets
A butt tuba
On a clover, if alive, erupts a vast pure evil; a fire volcano
Ten animals I slam in a net
Sit on a potato pan, Otis.
Wonton? Not now.
Yo banana boy.
(Etc.) I derp, predict E.
Symmetry by words[edit]
Some palindromes use words as units rather than letters.

You can cage a swallow, can't you, but you can't swallow a cage, can you?
Fall leaves as soon as leaves fall.
So patient a nurse to nurse a patient so.
"Come, shall I touch you wherever, darling? I am so randy." "So am I, darling; wherever you touch I shall come."
"Son, I am able," she said, "though you scare me." "Watch," said I, "beloved." I said, "Watch me scare you." "Though," said she, "able am I, son."
First ladies rule the state, and state the rule: "Ladies First!"